{% set title = "Contribute to Documentation" %}
<span id="title" class="d-none">{{ title }}</span>

<frontmatter>
  title: "{{ title }}"
  layout: devGuide.md
  pageNav: 3
</frontmatter>

# {{ title }}

<div class="lead">

Making contributions to MarkBind is not limited to code. You can also contribute to our documentation by fixing typos, improving the clarity of our explanations, or adding new content. 

</div>

## TLDR

- [ ] Reviewing MarkBind documentation
- [ ] Make modifications to the documentation
- [ ] Make a pull request & verify the PR preview

## Reviewing MarkBind Documentation

Assuming that you have completed the [Explore MarkBind as a user](exploreMarkBind.md) task, you should have a working local MarkBind setup.

To review the documentation and make changes to it locally, you can:

1. Open the MarkBind repository in your favorite code editor.
1. Change directory to `docs` by running `cd docs`.
1. Serve the documentation in development mode with `markbind serve -d`.
1. Review both the user guide and the developer guide.

<box type="tip" light>

You may want to check if there are any open issues tagged with the `a-Documentation` label. These [issues](https://github.com/MarkBind/markbind/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3A%22a-Documentation+%F0%9F%93%9D%22+sort%3Aupdated-desc) are usually related to documentation and may be a good place to start contributing for real!

</box>

<box type="important" light>

**Checkpoint**

Ensure that you can serve the MarkBind documentation site in development mode. You should be able to browse the site at http://localhost:8080.

<include src="exploreMarkBind.md#port-info"></include>

- [ ] Browse the user guide to ensure that the content is rendered correctly.
- [ ] Browse the developer guide to ensure that the content is rendered correctly.

</box>

## Make Modifications to the Documentation

In the following steps, we will be fixing a hypothetical typo. You do not need to commit the changes or raise a PR, but understand the context and follow the steps to get a feel for the process.

**!!Let's suppose we want to change the use of "Pop-Up" in our [user guide](../../userGuide/components/popups.html) to "Popup" (i.e. remove the hyphen).!!**

<box type="info" light>

These are the typical motivations for making documentation changes:
- Fixing typos, grammar, or spelling mistakes when reading the documentation, which may not be code-related.
- Keeping the documentation up-to-date with the latest changes in MarkBind, which may be code-related.
- Improving the clarity of the documentation, which may or may not be code-related.

</box>

**Before making any changes**, go through the following steps:

1. Check that the issue has been resolved in the [latest master branch docs](https://markbind-master.netlify.app/). 
1. Check that the issue has been raised, and if not, raise an issue.
   1. For trivial changes (like this one), you may skip this step.
   1. This step is important for more significant changes, as it allows the developer to propose changes and get feedback from the MarkBind team.

If the issue has been triaged and is ready to be worked on, we can proceed to make the changes. Since this is a trivial (and assuming correct) change, we will not be raising an issue and will proceed to make the changes directly.

1. Check out a new branch from the latest master branch.
1. Open the `docs/userGuide/components/popups.md` file.
1. Replace `Pop-Up`/`pop-up` with `Popup`/`popup` in the file.
1. Update the layout in `docs/_markbind/layouts/userGuide.md` to modify the site navigation item under `Using Components` from `Pop-Ups` to `Popups`.
1. Search for `Pop-Up`/`pop-up` in the `docs` directory to ensure that there are no other occurrences of the word. Else, replace them as well.

<box type="important" light>

**Checkpoint**

Check that the following are true:
- [ ] The rendered site navigation item under `Using Components` in the user guide is now `Popups`
- [ ] The word `Pop-Up`/`pop-up` has been replaced with `Popup`/`popup` in the rendered [page](../../userGuide/components/popups.html).

</box>

## Make a Pull Request & Verify the PR Preview

Once you have made the changes, commit them and push them to your forked repository.
Now, you can make a pull request targeting the `master` branch of the MarkBind repository.

<div id="pr-steps">

1. Fill in the pull request template.
1. Wait for the CI checks to pass.
   1. For first-time contributors, you may need to wait for the MarkBind team to approve your PR before the CI checks can run.
1. Verify that the PR preview is working.
   1. The PR preview is generated by netlify/markbind-master/deploy-preview.
   1. You can find the link to the PR preview in the checks section of the PR. <pic src="{{baseUrl}}/images/bootcamp/live_preview.png" width="920" alt="PR Checks Section"></pic>
   1. Open the link to the PR preview and ensure that your changes are reflected in the rendered site
1. Follow up with PR reviews and make changes as requested.

</div>

Since this is a hypothetical change, you do not need to raise a PR. You can refer to PR [#1924](https://github.com/MarkBind/markbind/pull/1924) for an example.

<box type="important" light>

**Checkpoint**

For !!actual!! documentation changes, check that the following are true:
- [ ] The PR template has been filled in
- [ ] The PR preview is working

</box>

## Summary

In this task, you have learned how to make documentation changes to MarkBind!

While documentation changes are not as exciting as code changes, they are still important. In particular, our documentation is generated by MarkBind itself, utilizing the same features that we are documenting. This means that our documentation is a great place to discover and analyze how MarkBind is used!

Here are some additional tasks for you to try out:
- [ ] Review a real documentation change (e.g [issue #1772](https://github.com/MarkBind/markbind/issues/1772) was resolved in [PR #1924](https://github.com/MarkBind/markbind/pull/1924) to improve the user guide)
- [ ] Check if there are [existing issues](https://github.com/MarkBind/markbind/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3A%22a-Documentation+%F0%9F%93%9D%22+sort%3Aupdated-desc) tagged with the `a-Documentation` label
  - [ ] If there are, try to resolve them!
  - [ ] If there are not, raise an issue when you discover a documentation bug or improvement (e.g make this bootcamp documentation better)!

When you are ready, move on to learn how to squash some bugs!

{% from "njk/common.njk" import previous_next %}
{{ previous_next('exploreMarkBind', 'fixABug') }}