{% set title = "Tips & Tricks" %}
<span id="title" class="d-none">{{ title }}</span>

<frontmatter>
  title: "User Guide: {{ title | safe }}"
  layout: userGuide.md
  pageNav: 5
</frontmatter>

# {{ title | safe }}

<span id="escapingCharacters">

##### :fas-lightbulb: Escaping Characters

For Markdown syntax: To display a literal character that are normally used for Markdown formatting, add a backslash (`\`) in front of the character.

<include src="codeAndOutput.md" boilerplate >
<variable name="highlightStyle">markdown</variable>
<variable name="code">
\* item 1

* item 1 
</variable>
</span>

<small>More info: [https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax#escaping-characters](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax#escaping-characters)</small>

</span>

---

{% raw %}

##### :fas-lightbulb: Using {% raw %}{% endraw %} to display `{{ content }}`


To display the raw variable interpolation syntax using `{% raw %}{% endraw %}`, you would also need to add
the `v-pre` attribute using markdown-it-attrs or as a html attribute.

<box type="info">

This isn't necessary for `<code>` elements, markdown code fences and inline code though, which markbind automatically
adds `v-pre` for.

However, this does not change the need for `{% raw %}{% endraw %}`. Meaning, you can still use variables within your code!
</box>


{% endraw %}

---

##### :fas-info: Unwanted starting space in links and triggers

When you use links or triggers, you may encounter a situation where an unwanted space is being generated by MarkBind:


* Code:<br>
  ```
  The
  [[link](https://example.com)].
  ```

* Expected output:
  <code>The [[link](https://example.com)].</code>

* Actual output (notice the additional space in front of the link):
  <code>The [ [link](https://example.com)].</code>

* Solution:
  Wrap the link or trigger around with `<md>` tags.
  ```
  The
  <md>[[link](https://example.com)]</md>.
  ```

---

<span id="useSpecificMarkBind">

##### :fas-info: Configuring Online Deployment platforms to use specific MarkBind version

**Configuring CI platforms to use specific MarkBind version**

When the [default CI configuration for deployment](deployingTheSite.html#using-ci-platforms) is used, the latest version of MarkBind will be used in the CI workflows. This may be a later version of MarkBind than the one you use locally.

* If you want to specify a version of MarkBind (eg. `v1.6.3`), you have to modify the step where `markbind-cli` is being installed to `npm i -g markbind-cli@v1.6.3`. For example, for Travis-CI, you can modifiy the `install` step in `.travis.yml` as follows:

  ```yaml
  install:
    - npm i -g markbind-cli@1.6.3
  ```
* If you want to use the latest minor version automatically until the next major version (as major versions usually contain breaking changes), you can add a `^` in front of the version number. In the example below, Travis will use the latest version of MarkBind but will stop before `2.*`

  ```yaml
  install:
    - npm i -g markbind-cli@^1.6.3
  ```

**Setting up Netlify to use a specific version of MarkBind**

Here are the steps to set up Netlify to use a specific version of MarkBind.

1. Navigate to the root directory of your site.
1. Run `npm init` which will create `package.json` and `package.lock.json`
1. Run `npm install markbind-cli@1.6.3 --save` to install markbind as a dependency (using v1.6.3 as an example)
1. Create / Update `.gitignore` file in the root directory and add:
   ```
   node_modules
   ```
1. Update `ignore` in site.json to include
   ```
   node_modules/*
   .gitignore
   ```

1. Now, follow the [previous instructions for setting up Netlify](deployingTheSite.html#deploying-to-netlify) but with the following difference:<br>
   In step 5, Set the ==Build Command== to `markbind build --baseUrl`

</box>

</span>

---

<span id="indentComponents">

##### :fas-lightbulb: Indent components

In some cases, you may want to indent components such as panels and boxes to match the surrounding content.
This is easily achieved by adding some margin and padding utility classes from [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.4/utilities/spacing/) 
to the component. The following examples show how to do this.

**Indent Box component**

<include src="codeAndOutput.md" boilerplate >
<variable name="highlightStyle">html</variable>
<variable name="code">

<box>Some text at level 1</box>

<box class="ml-4">Some text at level 2</box>

<box>Some text at level 1</box>

</variable>
</include>

**Indent Panel component**

<include src="codeAndOutput.md" boilerplate >
<variable name="highlightStyle">html</variable>
<variable name="code">

<panel header="This panel is at level 1">
  ...
</panel>
<panel header="This panel is at level 2" class="ml-3">
  The "ml-3" is arbitarily chosen i.e "ml-0" to "ml-5" are all possible values.
</panel>
<panel header="This panel is at level 1">
  ...
</panel>
</variable>
</include>

**Indent Included component**

The following box component will be included via `<include>`.

<span id="forIndentDemo">
<box>Some text from include</box>
</span>

<include src="codeAndOutput.md" boilerplate >
<variable name="highlightStyle">html</variable>
<variable name="code">

<box>Some text at level 1 (before included content)</box>
<include src="tipsAndTricks.md#forIndentDemo" class="ml-5"></include>
<box>Some text at level 1 (after included content)</box>

</variable>
</include>

</span>

